prompt:
i'm trying to get the verify pipeline right, but i end up with the following:
[VERIFIED] 
Does this chunk state a specific due date for payment?
    answer: YES
    quote:  The invoice was issued on March 3rd, 2024
--revisions below--
REVISED: YES
REVISION_QUOTE: The invoice was issued on March 3rd, 2024
ORIGINAL_VALUE: 3
DELTA_DIRECTION: DECREASE
DELTA_VALUE: 1000
--computes:--
None
--end of loop--
[VERIFIED] 
Does this chunk mention a late fee or penalty amount?
    answer: NO
    quote:  No late fee schedule is mentioned in this section.
--revisions below--
REVISED: YES
REVISION_QUOTE: They felt bad about that total amount due and made it a thousand dollars less.
ORIGINAL_VALUE: 4250
DELTA_DIRECTION: DECREASE
DELTA_VALUE: 1000
--computes:--
3250.0
--end of loop--
[VERIFIED] 
What's the amount due?
    answer: $4,250.00
    quote:  The total amount due is $4,250.00
--revisions below--
REVISED: YES
REVISION_QUOTE: They felt bad about that total amount due and made it a thousand dollars less.
ORIGINAL_VALUE: 4250
DELTA_DIRECTION: DECREASE
DELTA_VALUE: 1000
--computes:--
3250.0
--end of loop--


the first item is right on the first try, the reviser is citing itself so i made the computation send none, it needs work, but i've got a valid way to find the problem. I should say theres no need for a revision later on though, thats not the main point of this prompt either.


the second item is also right on the first try, but the revisor is totally wrong, and is citing in a way i don't really know how to fix. it computes for a problem thats not there.


the third item actually is wrong, and the revisor revises this properly, and the compute shows the right answer.


i want to find a real way to tackle this second item because i don't know how to even fix that one compared to the others.


AI reply

i don't know how to even fix that one compared to the others.
I think the second item exposes a deeper issue in the reviser prompt design.

For the question:

Does this chunk mention a late fee or penalty amount?

the extracted answer is:

NO
 Quote: "No late fee schedule is mentioned in this section."

Then the reviser sees:

"They felt bad about that total amount due and made it a thousand dollars less."

and concludes:

REVISED: YES
DELTA_DIRECTION: DECREASE
DELTA_VALUE: 1000


But that sentence is about the amount due, not the late fee.

What's really happening?

Your reviser is operating something like:

Find numbers.
Find change language ("less", "more", "reduced").
Assume change == revision.

It is not strongly grounding itself to the original fact being verified.

The amount-due entry works because the revision sentence actually refers to:

"that total amount due"

which is the same fact.

The late-fee entry fails because the reviser notices a revision somewhere in the chunk and
 doesn't check whether the revision is talking about the same subject.

The test I would add

Before computing anything, ask:

Does the revision quote refer to the same entity/subject as the original quote?

For example:

Original quote
No late fee schedule is mentioned in this section.

Candidate revision
They felt bad about that total amount due and made it a thousand dollars less.


Extract topics:

original_topic  = "late fee"
revision_topic  = "amount due"


Not equal:

return REVISED = NO

I would actually change the prompt

You already started moving in the right direction with this instruction:

Does any OTHER sentence in the chunk revise this SPECIFIC fact
(not some other fact in the chunk)?

Only answer YES if the revising sentence is clearly talking
about the same thing as the ANSWER above.


I'd make it even more explicit:

A sentence is only a revision if it refers to the same subject.

Examples:

Original fact: amount due = $4250
Revision: total amount due was reduced by $1000
=> YES

Original fact: no late fee schedule mentioned
Revision: total amount due was reduced by $1000
=> NO

Original fact: invoice date March 3rd
Revision: total amount due was reduced by $1000
=> NO


LLMs respond extremely well to contrastive examples like this.

Another thing: skip revision checks for some question types

Look at these two:

Does this chunk state a specific due date for payment?


and

Does this chunk mention a late fee or penalty amount?


These are existence questions.

They aren't really numeric facts that can be "decreased by $1000".

You could classify questions before revision:

if entry["answer"] in ("YES", "NO"):
    skip_revision_check()


or

FACT_TYPES = {
    "existence",
    "numeric",
    "date",
    "name"
}


Only run arithmetic revision logic on:

What's the amount due?


not

Does the chunk mention X?

What I think is the strongest fix

I'd use a two-stage reviser:

Stage 1

Find candidate revision sentence.

Did any later sentence modify or update the fact?

Stage 2

Validate relevance.

Is the candidate revision talking about the same subject?

Original Quote:
"No late fee schedule is mentioned..."

Candidate Revision:
"They felt bad about that total amount due..."

Answer YES/NO


Only if Stage 2 returns YES do you run:

compute_corrected_value(...)


That solves all three of your examples:

Item	Candidate Revision Found?	Same Subject?	Revision Applied?Due date	No	No	No
Late fee	Yes	No	No
Amount due	Yes	Yes	Yes

The interesting thing is that the second failure isn't really a math problem or even a revision problem. 
It's a fact-linking problem. Your reviser needs to prove that a candidate revision refers to the same underlying 
fact before it's allowed to compute anything. 
The amount-due case already gives you the pattern to validate against.